README.md, before:

# DrugShield - Pharmaceutical Authentication Platform

A blockchain-powered pharmaceutical authentication system designed to combat counterfeit drugs in Nigeria's supply chain. DrugShield uses QR codes, AI analysis, and blockchain technology to provide end-to-end drug verification from manufacturer to consumer.

## 🛡️ Overview

DrugShield is a comprehensive solution that addresses the critical issue of counterfeit pharmaceuticals by providing:

- **Blockchain Verification**: Immutable drug authenticity records on Polygon network
- **QR Code Technology**: Unique QR codes for instant verification
- **AI-Powered Analysis**: Computer vision for visual anomaly detection
- **NAFDAC Integration**: Full compliance with Nigeria's Mobile Authentication Service
- **Multi-Stakeholder Platform**: Tailored interfaces for manufacturers, pharmacists, consumers, and regulators

## 🎯 Key Features

### For Manufacturers
- Batch data upload and validation
- QR code generation for drug units
- Distribution tracking and analytics
- Blockchain transaction monitoring
- Compliance reporting

### For Pharmacists
- Instant QR code scanning and verification
- Inventory management
- Counterfeit reporting system
- Patient education tools
- Scan history and analytics

### For Consumers
- Mobile app for drug verification
- Instant authenticity checks
- Drug information and safety alerts
- Verification history tracking
- Offline verification capabilities

### For Regulators
- Real-time supply chain monitoring
- Compliance reporting and analytics
- Counterfeit detection statistics
- Regulatory alert system
- Audit trail management

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Technology Stack
- **Frontend**: Next.js with TypeScript
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui with Tailwind CSS
- **Blockchain**: Polygon network integration
- **AI/ML**: Computer vision for visual analysis
- **Authentication**: Role-based access control
- **Database**: Blockchain-based immutable records

### Key Technologies
- **Blockchain Security**: Immutable drug authenticity records
- **AI Analysis**: 99.7% accuracy in counterfeit detection
- **QR Code System**: Unique codes for each drug unit
- **Real-time Verification**: Instant blockchain-based verification
- **Mobile Integration**: Cross-platform mobile app support

## 📊 Platform Statistics

- **2.8M+ drugs verified** across the platform
- **50,000+ counterfeits detected** and prevented
- **20,000+ pharmacies** supported
- **99.7% detection accuracy** for counterfeit drugs
- **60% reduction** in verification time
- **24/7 system uptime** with 99.9% availability

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ and npm/pnpm
- Modern web browser
- Mobile device for testing (optional)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd shield-drug
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   pnpm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   pnpm dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### Environment Setup

Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory:

```env
# Blockchain Configuration
POLYGON_RPC_URL=your_polygon_rpc_url
POLYGON_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key

# AI/ML Services
AI_SERVICE_KEY=your_ai_service_key

# NAFDAC Integration
NAFDAC_API_KEY=your_nafdac_api_key
NAFDAC_API_URL=https://api.nafdac.gov.ng

# Database (if using external DB)
DATABASE_URL=your_database_url

# Authentication
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your_nextauth_secret
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

## 🎭 User Roles & Access

### Manufacturer Dashboard
- **URL**: `/manufacturer`
- **Features**: Batch upload, QR generation, analytics
- **Access**: Pharmaceutical manufacturers

### Pharmacist Dashboard
- **URL**: `/pharmacist`
- **Features**: Drug scanning, inventory, reports
- **Access**: Licensed pharmacists and pharmacies

### Consumer App
- **URL**: `/consumer`
- **Features**: Drug verification, safety alerts
- **Access**: General public

### Regulatory Dashboard
- **URL**: `/regulatory`
- **Features**: Monitoring, compliance, analytics
- **Access**: NAFDAC and regulatory authorities

## 🔧 Development

### Project Structure
```
shield-drug/
├── pages/                 # Next.js pages
│   ├── manufacturer/     # Manufacturer dashboard pages
│   ├── pharmacist/       # Pharmacist dashboard pages
│   ├── consumer/         # Consumer app pages
│   └── regulatory/       # Regulatory dashboard pages
├── src/
│   ├── components/       # React components
│   │   ├── Auth/        # Authentication components
│   │   ├── Camera/      # QR scanning components
│   │   ├── Dashboard/   # Dashboard components
│   │   └── ui/          # UI components (shadcn/ui)
│   ├── hooks/           # Custom React hooks
│   ├── lib/             # Utility functions
│   └── styles/          # Global styles
├── public/              # Static assets
└── scripts/             # Build and utility scripts
```

### Available Scripts

```bash
# Development
npm run dev              # Start development server
npm run build            # Build for production
npm run start            # Start production server
npm run lint             # Run ESLint
npm run type-check       # Run TypeScript checks

# Database (if applicable)
npm run db:migrate       # Run database migrations
npm run db:seed          # Seed database with sample data

# Testing
npm run test             # Run tests
npm run test:watch       # Run tests in watch mode
```

## 🔒 Security & Compliance

### Data Protection
- **GDPR Compliance**: All personal data handled according to international standards
- **Encryption**: End-to-end encryption for sensitive data
- **Access Control**: Role-based permissions and authentication
- **Audit Trails**: Complete audit logs for all system activities

### Regulatory Compliance
- **NAFDAC MAS**: Full integration with Nigeria's Mobile Authentication Service
- **EU FMD**: Compatible with European Falsified Medicines Directive
- **ISO Standards**: Following pharmaceutical industry standards
- **Blockchain Security**: Immutable records for regulatory compliance

## 📱 Mobile App

The consumer mobile app provides:
- QR code scanning for drug verification
- Offline verification capabilities
- Drug information and safety alerts
- Verification history tracking
- Push notifications for safety alerts

## 🌐 API Documentation

### Authentication Endpoints
```http
POST /api/auth/login
POST /api/auth/logout
GET /api/auth/verify
```

### Drug Verification Endpoints
```http
POST /api/verify/qr-code
GET /api/verify/history
POST /api/verify/report
```

### Manufacturer Endpoints
```http
POST /api/manufacturer/upload-batch
GET /api/manufacturer/batches
POST /api/manufacturer/generate-qr
```

### Regulatory Endpoints
```http
GET /api/regulatory/analytics
GET /api/regulatory/reports
POST /api/regulatory/alerts
```

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Use shadcn/ui components for consistency
- Write comprehensive tests for new features
- Update documentation for API changes
- Follow the existing code style and conventions

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

For support and questions:
- **Documentation**: [docs.drugshield.com](https://docs.drugshield.com)
- **Email**: support@drugshield.com
- **Phone**: +234 XXX XXX XXXX
- **NAFDAC Support**: [nafdac.gov.ng](https://nafdac.gov.ng)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- NAFDAC for regulatory guidance and integration
- Polygon team for blockchain infrastructure
- shadcn/ui for the excellent component library
- The pharmaceutical community for feedback and testing

---

**DrugShield** - Securing Nigeria's pharmaceutical supply chain, one verification at a time. 🛡️💊

Commit message:

feat: implement batch details API endpoint and remove feature flag
- Add /api/manufacturer/batch-details endpoint with comprehensive batch data
- Remove feature flag from fetchBatchDetails function in batch details page
- Include quality score calculation, verification statistics, and blockchain data
- Support authentication and authorization for manufacturer access
- Add proper error handling and data validation

README.md, after:

# DrugShield - Pharmaceutical Authentication Platform

A blockchain-powered pharmaceutical authentication system designed to combat counterfeit drugs in Nigeria's supply chain. DrugShield uses QR codes, AI analysis, and blockchain technology to provide end-to-end drug verification from manufacturer to consumer.

## 🛡️ Overview

DrugShield is a comprehensive solution that addresses the critical issue of counterfeit pharmaceuticals by providing:

- **Blockchain Verification**: Immutable drug authenticity records on Polygon network
- **QR Code Technology**: Unique QR codes for instant verification
- **AI-Powered Analysis**: Computer vision for visual anomaly detection
- **NAFDAC Integration**: Full compliance with Nigeria's Mobile Authentication Service
- **Multi-Stakeholder Platform**: Tailored interfaces for manufacturers, pharmacists, consumers, and regulators

## 🎯 Key Features

### For Manufacturers
- Batch data upload and validation
- QR code generation for drug units
- Distribution tracking and analytics
- Blockchain transaction monitoring
- Compliance reporting

### For Pharmacists
- Instant QR code scanning and verification
- Inventory management
- Counterfeit reporting system
- Patient education tools
- Scan history and analytics

### For Consumers
- Mobile app for drug verification
- Instant authenticity checks
- Drug information and safety alerts
- Verification history tracking
- Offline verification capabilities

### For Regulators
- Real-time supply chain monitoring
- Compliance reporting and analytics
- Counterfeit detection statistics
- Regulatory alert system
- Audit trail management

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Technology Stack
- **Frontend**: Next.js with TypeScript
- **UI Components**: shadcn/ui with Tailwind CSS
- **Blockchain**: Polygon network integration
- **AI/ML**: Computer vision for visual analysis
- **Authentication**: Role-based access control
- **Database**: Blockchain-based immutable records

### Key Technologies
- **Blockchain Security**: Immutable drug authenticity records
- **AI Analysis**: 99.7% accuracy in counterfeit detection
- **QR Code System**: Unique codes for each drug unit
- **Real-time Verification**: Instant blockchain-based verification
- **Mobile Integration**: Cross-platform mobile app support

## 📊 Platform Statistics

- **2.8M+ drugs verified** across the platform
- **50,000+ counterfeits detected** and prevented
- **20,000+ pharmacies** supported
- **99.7% detection accuracy** for counterfeit drugs
- **60% reduction** in verification time
- **24/7 system uptime** with 99.9% availability

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+ and npm/pnpm
- Modern web browser
- Mobile device for testing (optional)

### Installation

1. **Clone the repository**
   ```bash
   git clone <your-repo-url>
   cd shield-drug
   ```

2. **Install dependencies**
   ```bash
   npm install
   # or
   pnpm install
   ```

3. **Start the development server**
   ```bash
   npm run dev
   # or
   pnpm dev
   ```

4. **Open your browser**

## 📋 CSV Schema

The platform uses a unified CSV schema for data upload and export operations. See [UNIFIED_CSV_SCHEMA.md](./UNIFIED_CSV_SCHEMA.md) for complete documentation.

### Quick Start with CSV
- **Upload Format**: Use `public/sample-batch.csv` as a template for batch uploads
- **Export Format**: Download processed data in unified format from batch/upload details pages
- **Validation**: All uploads are validated against the required schema before processing
   Navigate to [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

### Environment Setup

Create a `.env.local` file in the root directory:

```env
# Blockchain Configuration
POLYGON_RPC_URL=your_polygon_rpc_url
POLYGON_PRIVATE_KEY=your_private_key

# AI/ML Services
AI_SERVICE_KEY=your_ai_service_key

# NAFDAC Integration
NAFDAC_API_KEY=your_nafdac_api_key
NAFDAC_API_URL=https://api.nafdac.gov.ng

# Database (if using external DB)
DATABASE_URL=your_database_url

# Authentication
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=your_nextauth_secret
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
```

## 🎭 User Roles & Access

### Manufacturer Dashboard
- **URL**: `/manufacturer`
- **Features**: Batch upload, QR generation, analytics
- **Access**: Pharmaceutical manufacturers

### Pharmacist Dashboard
- **URL**: `/pharmacist`
- **Features**: Drug scanning, inventory, reports
- **Access**: Licensed pharmacists and pharmacies

### Consumer App
- **URL**: `/consumer`
- **Features**: Drug verification, safety alerts
- **Access**: General public

### Regulatory Dashboard
- **URL**: `/regulatory`
- **Features**: Monitoring, compliance, analytics
- **Access**: NAFDAC and regulatory authorities

## 🔧 Development

### Project Structure
```
shield-drug/
├── pages/                 # Next.js pages
│   ├── manufacturer/     # Manufacturer dashboard pages
│   ├── pharmacist/       # Pharmacist dashboard pages
│   ├── consumer/         # Consumer app pages
│   └── regulatory/       # Regulatory dashboard pages
├── src/
│   ├── components/       # React components
│   │   ├── Auth/        # Authentication components
│   │   ├── Camera/      # QR scanning components
│   │   ├── Dashboard/   # Dashboard components
│   │   └── ui/          # UI components (shadcn/ui)
│   ├── hooks/           # Custom React hooks
│   ├── lib/             # Utility functions
│   └── styles/          # Global styles
├── public/              # Static assets
└── scripts/             # Build and utility scripts
```

### Available Scripts

```bash
# Development
npm run dev              # Start development server
npm run build            # Build for production
npm run start            # Start production server
npm run lint             # Run ESLint
npm run type-check       # Run TypeScript checks

# Database (if applicable)
npm run db:migrate       # Run database migrations
npm run db:seed          # Seed database with sample data

# Testing
npm run test             # Run tests
npm run test:watch       # Run tests in watch mode
```

## 🔒 Security & Compliance

### Data Protection
- **GDPR Compliance**: All personal data handled according to international standards
- **Encryption**: End-to-end encryption for sensitive data
- **Access Control**: Role-based permissions and authentication
- **Audit Trails**: Complete audit logs for all system activities

### Regulatory Compliance
- **NAFDAC MAS**: Full integration with Nigeria's Mobile Authentication Service
- **EU FMD**: Compatible with European Falsified Medicines Directive
- **ISO Standards**: Following pharmaceutical industry standards
- **Blockchain Security**: Immutable records for regulatory compliance

## 📱 Mobile App

The consumer mobile app provides:
- QR code scanning for drug verification
- Offline verification capabilities
- Drug information and safety alerts
- Verification history tracking
- Push notifications for safety alerts

## 🌐 API Documentation

### Authentication Endpoints
```http
POST /api/auth/login
POST /api/auth/logout
GET /api/auth/verify
```

### Drug Verification Endpoints
```http
POST /api/verify/qr-code
GET /api/verify/history
POST /api/verify/report
```

### Manufacturer Endpoints
```http
POST /api/manufacturer/upload-batch
GET /api/manufacturer/batches
POST /api/manufacturer/generate-qr
```

### Regulatory Endpoints
```http
GET /api/regulatory/analytics
GET /api/regulatory/reports
POST /api/regulatory/alerts
```

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (`git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -m 'Add amazing feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin feature/amazing-feature`)
5. Open a Pull Request

### Development Guidelines
- Follow TypeScript best practices
- Use shadcn/ui components for consistency
- Write comprehensive tests for new features
- Update documentation for API changes
- Follow the existing code style and conventions

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🆘 Support

For support and questions:
- **Documentation**: [docs.drugshield.com](https://docs.drugshield.com)
- **Email**: support@drugshield.com
- **Phone**: +234 XXX XXX XXXX
- **NAFDAC Support**: [nafdac.gov.ng](https://nafdac.gov.ng)

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- NAFDAC for regulatory guidance and integration
- Polygon team for blockchain infrastructure
- shadcn/ui for the excellent component library
- The pharmaceutical community for feedback and testing

---

**DrugShield** - Securing Nigeria's pharmaceutical supply chain, one verification at a time. 🛡️💊
